---
layout: article
title: transport models
parent: DB
grand_parent: utilities
nav_order: 99
date: 2023-06-28
last_modified_date: 2023-06-28 16:10:56
tags: python matplotlib
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: layouts
---

## 背景

### 綜合回顧及評論

- Previous observations and modeling results suggest that marine debris occurs in greater concentrations within specific regions in the North Pacific Ocean, such as the Subtropical Convergence Zone and eastern and western “Garbage Patches”. Here [Howell et al., 2012][doi13] review the major circulation patterns and oceanographic convergence zones in the North Pacific, and discuss logical mechanisms for regional marine debris concentration, transport, and retention. [^13]
- [Kooi et al., 2018](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-61615-5_7) review the present knowledge with respect to fate and transport modeling of plastic debris in **freshwater catchment areas**, focusing especially on nano- and microplastics.[^5]
- [Khatmullina and Chubarenko(2019)][doi16] state: the prevalence of the Lagrangian particle tracking approach, especially for floating litter. In a broader context, the present practice of MPs transport modelling follows the “selective” strategy (e.g., only a certain sub-class of MPs, or specific processes, are considered, sometimes in only one- or two-dimensional setting). The heterogeneous nature of MPs, their enormous longevity and movability in marine environment, and the wide spectrum of the involved environmental processes suggest further integration (or coupling) of different models in future, as well as application of other types of models (ensemble modeling, chaos theory approaches, machine learning, etc.) to the problems of MPs transport and fate in the marine environment.[^16]
- [Li et al. (2020)][doi12] provide a holistic overview of the modelling of microplastic transportation. [^12]

### Initiates and Activities

- LRI-ECO48: DEVELOP FATE AND TRANSPORT MODEL FOR MICROPLASTICS IN THE AQUATIC ENVIRONMENT by [Cefic LRI program](https://cefic-lri.org/request-for-proposals/eco48-develop-fate-and-transport-model-for-microplastics-in-the-aquatic-environment/) of European Chemical Industry Council

### 國內學位論文

[李易哲 (2021)][url19]以逆軌跡模式(Back trajectory model)的氣團追蹤，針對夏季與冬季東北季風盛行提供證據，證實臺灣的空氣中存在塑膠微粒，平均而言每天每平方公尺會落下304±216顆塑膠微粒，且確認大氣塑膠微粒的研究，應納入東亞季風的影響。[^19]

## 按照年度排序

### 2020 and before

- A model based on satellite-tracked buoy observations and scaled to a large data set of observations on microplastic from surface trawls was used to simulate the transport of plastics floating on the ocean surface from 2015 to 2025, with the goal to assess the optimal **marine** microplastic removal locations for two scenarios: removing the most surface microplastic and reducing the impact on ecosystems, using plankton growth as a proxy. by [Sherman and Sebille (2016)][doi21] [^21]
- [NGUYEN (2018)][doi17] studied microplastic transport through hydrodynamic modelling and investigate the behaviour of microplastic particles once they are released into the Göta **River**. In order to carry out the study, three different scenarios have been simulated with the software MIKE 3 Flow Module FM (MIKE Powered by DHI). The simulated scenarios differ in settling velocity and the number of emission sources. [^17]
- [Korfiatis, D.P. (2019)][doi11] Modeling microplastics transport and fate in the **marine** environment around a wastewater effluent discharge pipe. in Microplastics in Water and Wastewater[^11]
- The gridded emissions were adopted to the Lagrangian particle **atmospheric** transport model FLEXPART (FLEXible PARTicle Dispersion Model) version 10.4 with detail emission model and GAINS emission model by [Evangeliou et al., (2020)][doi10][^10]
- Based on a sediment transport model, [Osinski et al., (2020)][doi18] investigate the transport of different MP model particles, PET and PVC particles with sizes of 10 and 330 µm, under **storm** conditions. A storm event was chosen because extreme wave heights cause intense sediment erosion down to depths unaffected otherwise, and are therefore critical for determining accumulation regions. [^18]

### 2021

- the transport of MPs in a **saturated porous medium** was modeled by establishing governing equations. ([Ryu et al., 2021](https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/11/16/7189))[^4]
- [Mountford and Morales Maqueda, (2021)][doi14] use numerical modeling to explore the accumulation and transport of positively and neutrally buoyant microplastics in both Arctic and Southern Ocean **sea ice**. [^14]
- [Xiao et al. (2021)][url22] develop a theorybased settling velocity model for MPFs in the atmosphere, predicting a much smaller aerodynamic size than a volumetrically equivalent spherical particle. [^22]

### 2022

- a new numerical framework (CaMPSim-3D) for predicting microplastics fate and transport in different aquatic settings, which consists of a Lagrangian, three-dimensional (3D) particle-tracking model (PTM) coupled with an Eulerian-based hydrodynamic modeling system (TELEMAC) by [Pilechi et al., (2022)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0025326X22008013)[^1]
- “Full Multi” models,a freely available open-source modelling framework to explore environmental transport and fate of nano-and microplastics in aquatic systems [(Domercq et al., 2022)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364815221003339)[^2]
- Discussion on the **Mediterranean** fluxes by [(Ayat et al., 2022)][doi6][^6]
- A three-dimensional model of the **lake** hydro-thermodynamics in the non-hydrostatic formulation is used to produce the fields of currents and the other necessary parameters for the transport model by [Tsvetova, (2022)][doi9][^9]
- A novel modeling technique will be presented based on the open source CFD toolbox OpenFOAM. It combines a new coupling approach for the hydrodynamic processes in the surface water and hyporheic zone with transport modeling of microplastics in **fluvial systems** by [Dichgans et al., (2022)][doi15][^15]

### 2023

- **Oceanic** drag models that have been proposed to calculate the terminal settling velocity of regularly and irregularly shaped particles[(Coyle et al., 2023)](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acsestwater.2c00466)[^3]
- A hydrodynamic model was developed based on the advection-dispersion equation for quantifying microplastic mixing in **submerged canopies** by [Stride et al., (2023)][doi7][^7]
- Using lattice-Boltzmann Volume-of-Fluid simulations, [Lehmann et al., (2023)][doi8] find that oceanic **rising bubbles** indeed generate a net flow of particles toward the surface.[^8]
- Using a Lagrangian particle-tracking method coupled with a validated 3D hydrodynamic model, [Summers et al. (2023)][doi20] examined the transport behavior of microplastics, as well as export ability of the Galveston Bay **estuary**.[^20]

## Reference

[^1]: Pilechi, A., Mohammadian, A., Murphy, E. (2022). **A numerical framework for modeling fate and transport of microplastics in inland and coastal waters**. Marine Pollution Bulletin 184, 114119. [doi](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.marpolbul.2022.114119)
[^2]: Domercq, P., Praetorius, A., MacLeod, M. (2022). **The Full Multi: An open-source framework for modelling the transport and fate of nano- and microplastics in aquatic systems**. Environmental Modelling & Software 148, 105291. [doi](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2021.105291)
[^3]: Coyle, R., Service, M., Witte, U., Hardiman, G., McKinley, J. (2023). **Modeling Microplastic Transport in the Marine Environment: Testing Empirical Models of Particle Terminal Sinking Velocity for Irregularly Shaped Particles**. ACS EST Water 3, 984–995. [doi][doi3]
[^4]: Ryu, H.-S., Moon, J., Kim, H., Lee, J.-Y. (2021). **Modeling and Parametric Simulation of Microplastic Transport in Groundwater Environments**. Applied Sciences 11. [doi](https://doi.org/10.3390/app11167189)
[^5]: Kooi, M., Besseling, E., Kroeze, C., van Wezel, A.P., Koelmans, A.A. (2018). **Modeling the Fate and Transport of Plastic Debris in Freshwaters: Review and Guidance**, in: Wagner, M., Lambert, S. (Eds.), **Freshwater Microplastics : Emerging Environmental Contaminants?**, Springer International Publishing, Cham, pp. 125–152. [doi](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-61615-5_7)
[^6]: Ayat, B., Aydoğan, B., Gündoğdu, S. (2022). **Modeling the Fate and Transport of Microplastics in Coastal Areas.** [doi](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-89220-3_12)
[^7]: Stride, B., Abolfathi, S., Odara, M.G.N., Bending, G.D., Pearson, J. (2023). **Modeling Microplastic and Solute Transport in Vegetated Flows.** Water Resources Research 59, e2023WR034653. [doi][doi7]
[^8]: Lehmann, M., Häusl, F.P., Gekle, S. (2023). **Modeling of vertical microplastic transport by rising bubbles.** Microplastics and Nanoplastics 3, 4. [doi][doi8]
[^9]: Tsvetova, E.A. (2022). **Transport model: microplastic in Lake Baikal**, in: 28th International Symposium on Atmospheric and Ocean Optics: Atmospheric Physics, Presented at the 28th International Symposium on Atmospheric and Ocean Optics: Atmospheric Physics, SPIE, pp. 1230–1234. [doi][doi9]
[^10]: Evangeliou, N., Grythe, H., Klimont, Z., Heyes, C., Eckhardt, S., Lopez-Aparicio, S., Stohl, A. (2020). **Atmospheric transport is a major pathway of microplastics to remote regions**. Nat Commun 11, 3381. [doi][doi10]
[^11]: Korfiatis, D.P. (2019). **Modeling microplastics transport and fate in the marine environment around a wastewater effluent discharge pipe.** in Microplastics in Water and Wastewater Edited by Hrissi K. Karapanagioti and Ioannis K. Kalavrouziotis [doi][doi11]
[^12]: Li, Y., Zhang, H., Tang, C. (2020). **A review of possible pathways of marine microplastics transport in the ocean.** Anthropocene Coasts 3, 6–13. [doi][doi12]
[^13]: Howell, E.A., Bograd, S.J., Morishige, C., Seki, M.P., Polovina, J.J. (2012). **On North Pacific circulation and associated marine debris concentration.** Marine Pollution Bulletin 65, 16–22. [doi][doi13]
[^14]: Mountford, A.S., Morales Maqueda, M.A. (2021). **Modeling the Accumulation and Transport of Microplastics by Sea Ice.** Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans 126, e2020JC016826. [doi][doi14]
[^15]: Dichgans, F., Boos, J.-P., Frei, S., Fleckenstein, J.H. (2022). I**ntegrated numerical modeling of microplastic transport in fluvial systems** EGU22-7445. [doi][doi15]
[^16]: Khatmullina, L., Chubarenko, I. (2019). **Transport of marine microplastic particles: why is it so difficult to predict?** Anthropocene Coasts 2, 293–305. [doi][doi16]
[^17]: NGUYEN, A.L. (2018). **Hydrodynamic modelling of microplastic transport: A case study on microplastics from traffic emissions in the Göta River** (Master’s thesis 2018:ACEX30-18-106). CHALMERS UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY, Gothenburg, Sweden.[url][doi17]
[^18]: Osinski, R.D., Enders, K., Gräwe, U., Klingbeil, K., Radtke, H. (2020). **Model uncertainties of a storm and their influence on microplastics / sediment transport in the Baltic Sea** (preprint). All Depths/Numerical Models/Baltic Sea/Sediment Processes. [doi][doi18]
[^19]: 李易哲 (2021). **東亞季風與地形效應對大氣塑膠微粒沉降之影響**. 地理環境資源學研究所. 國立臺灣大學, 台北市.[url][url19]
[^20]: Summers, E., Du, J., Park, K., Kaiser, K., Ryder, J. (2023). **Modelling transport pathways of varying microplastics in an estuarine environment** (No. EGU23-9577). Presented at the EGU23, Copernicus Meetings. [doi][doi20]
[^21]: Sherman, P., Sebille, E. van (2016). Modeling marine surface microplastic transport to assess optimal removal locations. Environ. Res. Lett. 11, 014006. [doi][doi21]
[^22]: Xiao, S., Cui, Y., Brahney, J., Mahowald, N. (2021). Long-distance atmospheric transport of microplastic fibres depends on their shapes. [url][url22]

[url22]: https://assets.researchsquare.com/files/rs-2416912/v1/215580b03891303c6190ece2.pdf?c=1673904444 "(Xiao et al., 2021)"
[doi21]: https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/11/1/014006 "(Sherman and Sebille, 2016)"
[doi20]: https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-egu23-9577 "(Summers et al., 2023)"

[url19]: https://hdl.handle.net/11296/32b2cq "(李易哲, 2021)"
[doi18]: https://doi.org/10.5194/os-2020-28 "(Osinski et al., 2020)"
[doi17]: https://odr.chalmers.se/server/api/core/bitstreams/a4b703cc-1de6-4551-8751-8c0084395ce6/content "(NGUYEN, 2018)"
[doi16]: https://doi.org/10.1139/anc-2018-0024 "(Khatmullina and Chubarenko, 2019)"
[doi15]: https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-egu22-7445 "Dichgans et al., 2022"
[doi14]:https://doi.org/10.1029/2020JC016826 "(Mountford and Morales Maqueda, 2021)"
[doi13]: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.marpolbul.2011.04.034 "Howell et al., 2012"
[doi12]: https://doi.org/10.1139/anc-2018-0030 "Anthropocene Coasts 3, 6–13."
[doi3]: https://doi.org/10.1021/acsestwater.2c00466 "ACS ES&T Water 3, 984–995."
[doi11]: https://doi.org/10.2166/9781789060034_0101 "Microplastics in Water and Wastewater"
[doi10]: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-17201-9 "Nat Commun 11, 3381. "
[doi9]: https://doi.org/10.1117/12.2644796 "Atmospheric Physics, SPIE, pp. 1230–1234."
[doi6]: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/356458877_Modeling_the_Fate_and_Transport_of_Microplastics_in_Coastal_Areas "Ayat et al., 2022"
[doi7]: https://doi.org/10.1029/2023WR034653 "Water Resources Research 59, e2023WR034653"
[doi8]: https://microplastics.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s43591-023-00053-7 "Microplastics and Nanoplastics 3, 4"
