# Tuesday, August 22, 2023

[wandb](https://wandb.ai/home)

- Shao, H., Huang, L., Michels, D.L. (2022). A fast unsmoothed aggregation algebraic multigrid framework for the large-scale simulation of incompressible flow. ACM Trans. Graph. 41, 1–18. [doi](https://doi.org/10.1145/3528223.3530109)

- Popular fluid solvers in computer graphics include 
  - **Eulerian** ：[Enright et al. 2002][1]; [Foster and Fedkiw 2001][2]; [Stam 1999][3] and 
  - **Hybrid Lagrangian-Eulerian** methods [Jiang et al. 2015][4]; [Zhu and Bridson 2005][6], 
  - **Lagrangian particles** such as 
    - **smoothed-particle hydrodynamics** (SPH) [Bender and Koschier 2017][7]; [Ihmsen et al. 2014a,b][8]; [Müller-Fischer et al. 2003][9]; [Solenthaler and Pajarola 2009][9], and 
    - **Lattice Boltzman** methods [Lyu et al. 2021][10]; [Thürey and Rüde 2009][11]. 
- For a more thorough introduction to fluid solvers we refer to the course notes of Bridson and [Müller-Fischer 2007][12], Koschier et al. [2019][13], and [Bridson’s textbook 2016][14]. In this section, we mostly focus on **multigrid** methods in fluid simulation and within viscosity solvers.

2.1 Multigrid

We refer the reader to Briggs et al. [2000] for a very nice introduction
to multigrid methods. We summarize some multigrid methods in
Table 1. For the pressure Poisson equation, UAAMG is not new.
Stüben [2001] wrote a concise review of the algebraic multigrid
approach including such aggregation-based variant. Although it
converges slower than the classical AMG [Ruge and Stüben 1987],
there are simple fixes that make UAAMG as efficient as the classical
AMG for scalar Poisson problems. Zarifi [2020] used aggregation
based algebraic multigrid for smoke simulation but did not discuss
the possibility of such a method for liquid simulation. We tried to use
the V cycle variant in its supplemental material for liquid simulation,
but it did not work well. It tried to implement smoothed aggregation
in the V cycle by including extra relaxations after piecewise constant
interpolation. However it did not include such relaxations when
building coarse level matrices, which was unorthodox compared
to the work of Vaněk et al. [2001]. Bolz et al. [2003] applied the
multigrid method to 2D fluid simulation. They used piecewise linear
interpolations and built coarse levels based on the Galerkin principle.

[1]: https://physbam.stanford.edu/~fedkiw/papers/stanford2002-03.pdf "Douglas Enright, Stephen Marschner, and Ronald Fedkiw. 2002. Animation and Rendering of Complex Water Surfaces. ACM Trans. Graph. 21, 3 (July 2002), 736–744."
[2]:  https://physbam.stanford.edu/~fedkiw/papers/stanford2001-02.pdf "Nick Foster and Ronald Fedkiw. 2001. **Practical animation of liquids**. In Proceedings of the 28th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques. 23–30."
[3]: https://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~chaol/data/cs777/stam-stable_fluids.pdf "Jos Stam. 1999. **Stable Fluids**. Proc. of ACM SIGGRAPH (1999), 121–128."
[4]: https://www.math.ucla.edu/~cffjiang/research/apic/paper.pdf "Chenfanfu Jiang, Craig Schroeder, Andrew Selle, Joseph Teran, and Alexey Stomakhin. 2015. **The Affine Particle-in-Cell Method**. ACM Trans. Graph. 34, 4, Article 51 (July 2015), 10 pages."